# Does long term exposure to different climate change scenarios affect copepod thermal limts?

Matthew Sasaki & Mathew Holmes-Hackerd, Rowan Batts, Lisa Piastuch, Hans Dam

This project measures thermal limits for experimental lineages of the copepod *Acartia tonsa* exposed to four different climate change scenarios. The lineages were from a factorial experimental design, combining ambient and increased temperature and CO2 values, to simulate four different climate change scenarios (ambient, warming, acidification, and co-occurring warming and acidification). The initial population was collected from Long Island Sound in the summer of 2017, and each lineage has since experienced over __ generations under their respective conditions. We used a dynamic ramping assay to measure critical thermal maxima (CTmax) of copepods. Data was collected during Fall of 2022.

Data was collected by Rowan Batts, Mathew Holmes-Hackerd, Lisa Piastuch, and Matthew Sasaki. Matthew Sasaki wrote all code to analyze the data. 

--- Contents ---
File structure: folders and files by name. For each, provide a brief description of their contents. 

For each data file, provide the number of variables and the number of observations (rows). 
List all variables (spell out abbreviated words in the variable name) and provide a clear description (abbreviations, units, etc.). 
Be sure to specify how missing data is indicated (NA, etc.). If not obvious from the file name, specify the file type/format. 


--- Versioning and Environment ---
Initial details about the versioning of software and packages involved in this project file are provided below:
R version 4.0.3 (2020-10-10)
Platform: x86_64-apple-darwin17.0 (64-bit)
Running under: macOS  12.6

Matrix products: default
LAPACK: /Library/Frameworks/R.framework/Versions/4.0/Resources/lib/libRlapack.dylib

locale:
[1] en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/C/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8

attached base packages:
[1] stats     graphics  grDevices utils     datasets  methods   base     

loaded via a namespace (and not attached):
[1] compiler_4.0.3 tools_4.0.3   


--- Workflow ---
This experiment is comprised of multiple replicates (individual heat stress assays). The setup details (how many individuals from each lineage) were randomized, generated by the 00_setup_guide.R script. Temperature data was continuously recorded during the ramping assays, and used in combination with the time that each individual ceased responding to stimuli to measure CTmax in degrees C. Individual lengths were measured after the CTmax assay. These files are integrated via the data_processing.R script, which outputs processed CTmax data.

To replicate these analyses, the entire project folder can be downloaded. By sourcing the 02_controller script, the entire analysis from data processing to visualization and analysis can be replicated.

--- Licensing and Funding ---
Provide license information, such as Creative Commons open source license language granting readers the right to reuse code. For more information on how to choose and write a license, see choosealicense.com or https://opendatacommons.org

list funding sources used to generate the archived data, and include information about permits (collection, animal care, human research). 